Add an `otelcol.receiver.opencensus` Flow component (#2727)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.opencensus.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.opencensus
title: otelcol.receiver.opencensus
---

# otelcol.receiver.opencensus

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` accepts telemetry data via gRPC or HTTP 
using the [OpenCensus](https://opencensus.io/) format and
forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.opencensus` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `opencensus` receiver from the `otelcol-contrib`
> distribution. Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the
> upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.opencensus` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.receiver.opencensus "LABEL" {
  output {
    metrics = [...]
    logs    = [...]
    traces  = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`cors_allowed_origins`     | `list(string)` | A list of allowed Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) origins. |  | no

> `cors_allowed_origins` are the allowed [CORS](github.com/rs/cors) origins for HTTP/JSON requests.

Author: I think it's a legitimate error, thanks for spotting it! I'll change it.

[tls]: #tls-block
[keepalive]: #keepalive-block
[server_parameters]: #server_parameters-block
[enforcement_policy]: #enforcement_policy-block
[output]: #output-block

### grpc block

The `grpc` block configures the gRPC/HTTP server used by the component. If the
`grpc` block isn't provided, a server will be started using default parameters.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`endpoint` | `string` | `host:port` to listen for traffic on. | `"0.0.0.0:4317"` | no
`transport` | `string` | Transport to use for the gRPC server. | `"tcp"` | no
`max_recv_msg_size` | `string` | Maximum size of messages the server will accept. 0 disables a limit. | | no
`max_concurrent_streams` | `number` | Limit the number of concurrent streaming RPC calls. | | no
`read_buffer_size` | `string` | Size of the read buffer the gRPC server will use for reading from clients. | `"512KiB"` | no
`write_buffer_size` | `string` | Size of the write buffer the gRPC server will use for writing to clients. | | no
`include_metadata` | `boolean` | Propagate incoming connection metadata to downstream consumers. | | no

> In order to use plain HTTP/JSON, specify the `endpoint` attribute. There is no HTTP-specific block.
> The HTTP/JSON address is the same as gRPC as the protocol is recognized and processed accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use plain HTTP/JSON, specify the `endpoint` attribute. There is no HTTP-specific block.
The HTTP/JSON address is the same as gRPC, as the protocol is recognized and processed accordingly.
```

> To write traces with HTTP/JSON, `POST` to `[address]/v1/trace`. The JSON message format parallels the gRPC protobuf format, see this [OpenApi spec for it](https://github.com/census-instrumentation/opencensus-proto/blob/master/gen-openapi/opencensus/proto/agent/trace/v1/trace_service.swagger.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write traces with HTTP/JSON, `POST` to `[address]/v1/trace`. The JSON message format parallels the gRPC protobuf format. For details, refer to its [OpenApi specification](https://github.com/census-instrumentation/opencensus-proto/blob/master/gen-openapi/opencensus/proto/agent/trace/v1/trace_service.swagger.json).
```

> Note that `max_recv_msg_size`, `read_buffer_size` and `write_buffer_size` are formatted in a special way, 
> so that the units are included in the string - e.g. "512KiB" or "1024KB".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `max_recv_msg_size`, `read_buffer_size` and `write_buffer_size` are formatted in a special way, 
so that the units are included in the string, e.g., "512KiB" or "1024KB".
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.opencensus
title: otelcol.receiver.opencensus
---

# otelcol.receiver.opencensus

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` accepts telemetry data via gRPC or HTTP 
using the [OpenCensus](https://opencensus.io/) format and
forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.opencensus` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `opencensus` receiver from the `otelcol-contrib`
> distribution. Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the
> upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.opencensus` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river

> otelcol.receiver.opencensus "LABEL" {
>   cors_allowed_origins = [ ... ]
> 
>   grpc { ... }
> 
>   output {
>     metrics = [...]
>     logs    = [...]
>     traces  = [...]
>   }
> }

Reviewer 2: For the usage we only show required things:

```suggestion
otelcol.receiver.opencensus "LABEL" {
  output {
    metrics = [...]
    logs    = [...]
    traces  = [...]
  }
}
```

```

In order to use plain HTTP/JSON, specify the `endpoint` attribute
inside the `grpc` block of this component. There is no HTTP-specific block.
The HTTP/JSON address is the same as gRPC as the protocol is recognized and processed accordingly.

> To write traces with HTTP/JSON, `POST` to `[address]/v1/trace`. The JSON message format parallels the gRPC protobuf format, see this [OpenApi spec for it](https://github.com/census-instrumentation/opencensus-proto/blob/master/gen-openapi/opencensus/proto/agent/trace/v1/trace_service.swagger.json).

Reviewer 2: Can you move this to be in the section that describes the grpc block?

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`cors_allowed_origins`     | `list(string)` | A list of allowed Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) origins. |  | no

`cors_allowed_origins` are the allowed CORS origins for HTTP/JSON requests to gRPC-gateway adapter 

> for the OpenCensus receiver. See [github.com/rs/cors](github.com/rs/cors).

Reviewer 2: I don't know if anyone will know what "gRPC-gateway adapter" means :)

Author: Haha fair enough, I'll leave it as:

> `cors_allowed_origins` are the allowed [CORS](github.com/rs/cors) origins for HTTP/JSON requests.

### enforcement_policy block

The `enforcement_policy` block configures the keepalive enforcement policy for
gRPC servers. The server will close connections from clients that violate the
configured policy.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`min_time` | `duration` | Minimum time clients should wait before sending a keepalive ping. | `"5m"` | no
`permit_without_stream` | `boolean` | Allow clients to send keepalive pings when there are no active streams. | `false` | no

### output block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/output-block.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.receiver.opencensus` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

This example forwards received telemetry data through a batch processor before
finally sending it to an OTLP-capable endpoint:

> ```river

Reviewer 2: Can you format this with riverfmt?
